when we think about learning we often
picture students in a classroom or
lecture hall books open on their desk
listening intently to a teacher or
professor in the front of the room but
in psychology learning means something
else to psychologists learning is a
long-term change in behavior that's
based on experience two of the main
types of learning are called classical
conditioning and operant or instrumental
conditioning let's talk about classical
conditioning first in the 1890s a
Russian physiologist named Ivan Pavlov
did some really famous experiments on
dogs
he showed dogs some food and rang a bell
at the same time after a while the dogs
would associate the Bell with the food
they would learn that when they heard
the Bell they would get fed eventually
just ringing the bell made the dog
salivate they learned to expect food at
the sound of a bell you see under normal
conditions the sight and smell of food
causes a dog to salivate we call the
food an unconditioned stimulus and we
call salivation an unconditioned
response nobody trains a dog to salivate
over some steak however when we pair an
unconditioned stimulus like food with
something that was previously neutral
like the sound of a bell that neutral
stimulus becomes a conditioned stimulus
and so classical conditioning was
discovered we see how this works with
animals but how does it work with humans
in exactly the same way let's say that
one day you go to the doctor to get a
shot she says don't worry this won't
hurt a bit
and then gives you the most painful shot
you've ever had a few weeks later you go
to the dentist for a check-up he starts
to put a mirror in your mouth to examine
your teeth and he says don't worry this
won't hurt a bit even though you know
the mirror won't hurt you jump out of
the chair and run screaming from the
room when you went to get a shot the
words this won't hurt a bit
became a conditioned stimulus when they
were paired with the pain of the shot
the unconditioned stimulus which was
followed by your conditioned response of
getting the heck out of there
classical conditioning in action operant
conditioning explains how consequences
lead to changes in voluntary behavior so
how does operant conditioning work there
are two main components in operant
conditioning reinforcement and
Punishment reinforcers make it more
likely that you'll do something again
while Punishers make it less likely
reinforcement and Punishment can be
positive or negative but this doesn't
mean good and bad positive means the
addition of a stimulus like getting
dessert after you finish your veggies a
negative means the removal of a stimulus
like getting a night of no homework
because you did well on an exam let's
look at an example of operant
conditioning after eating dinner with
your family you clear the table and wash
the dishes when you're done your mom
gives you a big hug and says thank you
for helping me in this situation
your mom's response is positive
reinforcement if it makes you more
likely to repeat the operant response
which is to clear the table and wash the
dishes operant conditioning is
everywhere in our daily lives there
aren't many things we do that haven't
been influenced at some point by operant
conditioning we even see operant
conditioning in some extraordinary
situations one group of science has
showed the power of operant conditioning
by teaching pigeons to be art
connoisseurs using food as a positive
reinforcer scientists have taught
pigeons to select paintings by Monet
over those by Picasso when showed works
of other artists scientists observe
stimulus generalization as the pigeons
chose the Impressionists over the
Cubist's maybe next they'll conditioned
the pigeons to paint their own
masterpieces
Oh